README.md, before:

eifogl
======

EiffelOpenGL is an Eiffel wrapping of OpenGL. It consists of incomplete but working wrappings of the GL and GLU libraries, as well as the GLUT library. It is licensed under EFL - The Eiffel Forum License.

A little history
----------------

This library was written in 1998-2002 in my spare time as a hobby project. I simply wanted to learn about graphics programming using OpenGL and I wanted to do it in Eiffel.

At that time I was working professionally on Windows and the main Eiffel development environment and compiler (ISE Eiffel - today Eiffel Software) was investing heavily in a presence on the Windows platform. Therefore it seemed natural for me to start working on EiffelOpenGL on Windows.

Since 2002 I haven't touched the library. The current library is thus completely geared towards Windows. This means that the configuration files (Ace-files) for each EiffelOpenGL program in the examples are written for the Windows platform.

Current status
--------------

In june 2016, after many years, I started working on upgrading the library to the latest release of EiffelStudio and in getting it working on Linux with the Mesa OpenGL and FreeGLUT libraries. Note: I'm working on Ubuntu 15.05/16.04 machines.

Short term goals:

 1. Ignore support for Eiffel OpenGL on Windows.
 2. Upgrade GLUT Eiffel binding to FreeGLUT.
 3. Update all GLUT example programs.

Long term and low prio goals:

 1. Remove obsolete stuff.
 2. Upgrade GLX binding.

I'm currenly working on getting everything to compile with EiffelStudio 16.05 and FreeGLUT. I'm rusty on both but have got the example program 'simple' working. You can find that [here](https://github.com/pacoispaco/eifogl/tree/master/examples/eglut/simple).

Since I haven't yet gone through all code, there's a lot of stuff here that may not work at the moment. I hope to fix that and remove all obsolete stuff in the coming months. You can check the status of ongoing work [here](https://github.com/pacoispaco/eifogl/blob/master/UPGRADE_NOTES_FREEGLUT.md).

Installing
----------

 1. Install EiffelStudio Enterprise or the GPL licensed version from https://www.eiffel.org/downloads

 2. Install Mesa OpenGL and FreeGLUT.

```
$ sudo apt-get install freeglut3 freeglut3-dev libglew-dev
```

 3. Install the Mesa utilities which include **glxinfo** tool that displays info on your OpenGL installation, i.e. capabilities of the OpenGL implementation.

```
$ sudo apt-get install mesa-utils
```

 4. Clone this git repo.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/pacoispaco/eifogl.git
```

 5. Make sure the ISE_EIFFEL and EIFOGL environment variables are set. EIFOGL must point to the root directory where you cloned your local copy of eifogl; typically something likei this:

```
$ export EIFOGL=~/myprojects/eifogl
```

You can edit the file 'tools/setupenv.sh' as is appropriate and then source it. You can of course put those environment variables in your .bashrc or other appropriate dotfile.

 6. Compile the C wrapper libraries in EiffelOpenGL. Run make in the root directory.

```
$ make
```

Writing EGLUT based EiffelOpenGL programs
-----------------------------------------

There are a number of example programs in the directory examples/eglut. To use EGLUT you need to implement at the least, two classes and do it according to the following constraints:

 * One of the classes must inherit from the EGLUT_APPLICATION class. In all the example programs this class is simply called APPLICATION. This is the root class of your EGLUT application. You must list the feature "make" as a creation procedure and you must specify it as the root class creation procedure in your applications .ecf file. You should not redefine this "make" feature unless you *really* understand the EGLUT library, since this feature sets up the wrapping of the GLUT C library and makes sure the neccessary callbacks from the C GLUT library will work. In all the example programs this class is simply called APPLICATION. **IMPORTANT NOTE:** You must specifiy your EGLUT_APPLICATION class as visible in your .ecf file. This is so that the GLUT callbacks from the GLUT C library will work.

 * The other class must inherit from the EGLUT_TOP_LEVEL_WINDOW class. In all the example programs this class is simply called MAIN_WINDOW. In this class you implement your GLUT-based OpenGL program and there are two parts to this. First you need to specifiy which GLUT window events you want to subscribe to and then what you want to happen when those events occur. Secondly you of course want to write your OpenGL program using all the OpenGL features available.

It is possible to have more than one window in GLUT-based applications, and you can write such programs using EGLUT. Se the example program example/eglut/multi_sphere to see how that can be done.

Commit message:

Edit README.md and history.txt files

README.md, after:

eifogl (EiffelOpenGL)
=====================

EiffelOpenGL is an Eiffel wrapping of OpenGL. It consists of incomplete but working wrappings of the GL and GLU libraries, as well as the GLUT library. It is licensed under EFL - The Eiffel Forum License.

A little history
----------------

This library was written in 1998-2002 in my spare time as a hobby project. I simply wanted to learn about graphics programming using OpenGL and I wanted to do it in Eiffel.

At that time I was working professionally on Windows and the main Eiffel development environment and compiler (ISE Eiffel - today Eiffel Software) was investing heavily in a presence on the Windows platform. Therefore it seemed natural for me to start working on EiffelOpenGL on Windows.

Between 2002 and the summer of 2016 didn't do any work on the library.

Current status
--------------

In june 2016, after many years, I started working on upgrading the library to the latest release of EiffelStudio and in getting it working on Linux (Ubuntu 15.05 & 16.04) with the Mesa OpenGL and FreeGLUT libraries.

Short term goals:

 1. Ignore support for Eiffel OpenGL on Windows.
 2. Upgrade GLUT Eiffel binding to FreeGLUT.
 3. Update all GLUT example programs.

Long term and low prio goals:

 1. Remove obsolete stuff.
 2. Upgrade GLX binding.
 3. See if it is easy to make it work with LibertyEiffel.

You can check the status of ongoing work [here](https://github.com/pacoispaco/eifogl/blob/master/UPGRADE_NOTES_FREEGLUT.md).

Installing and setting up a development environment
---------------------------------------------------

 1. Install EiffelStudio Enterprise or the GPL licensed version from https://www.eiffel.org/downloads

 2. Make sure the ISE_EIFFEL environment variable is set.

 3. Install Mesa OpenGL and FreeGLUT.
```
$ sudo apt-get install freeglut3 freeglut3-dev libglew-dev
```

 4. Install the Mesa utilities which include **glxinfo** tool that displays info on your OpenGL installation, i.e. capabilities of the OpenGL implementation.
```
$ sudo apt-get install mesa-utils
```

 5. Clone this git repo.
```
$ git clone https://github.com/pacoispaco/eifogl.git
```

 6. Make sure the EIFOGL environment variable is set to point to the root directory where you cloned your local copy of eifogl; typically something like this:
```
$ export EIFOGL=~/myprojects/eifogl
```
You should of course put the environment variables you need to have set in your .bashrc or other appropriate dotfile.

 7. Compile the C wrapper libraries in EiffelOpenGL. Run make in the root directory.
```
$ make
```

Writing EGLUT based EiffelOpenGL programs
-----------------------------------------

There are a number of example programs in the directory examples/eglut. To use EGLUT you need to implement at the least, two classes and do it according to the following constraints:

 * One of the classes must inherit from the EGLUT_APPLICATION class. In all the example programs this class is simply called APPLICATION. This is the root class of your EGLUT application. You must list the feature "make" as a creation procedure and you must specify it as the root class creation procedure in your applications .ecf file. You should not redefine this "make" feature unless you *really* understand the EGLUT library, since this feature sets up the wrapping of the GLUT C library and makes sure the neccessary callbacks from the C GLUT library will work. In all the example programs this class is simply called APPLICATION. **IMPORTANT NOTE:** You must specifiy your EGLUT_APPLICATION class as visible in your .ecf file. This is so that the GLUT callbacks from the GLUT C library will work.

 * The other class must inherit from the EGLUT_TOP_LEVEL_WINDOW class. In all the example programs this class is simply called MAIN_WINDOW. In this class you implement your GLUT-based OpenGL program and there are two parts to this. First you need to specifiy which GLUT window events you want to subscribe to and then what you want to happen when those events occur. Secondly you of course want to write your OpenGL program using all the OpenGL features available.

It is possible to have more than one window in GLUT-based applications, and you can write such programs using EGLUT. Se the example program example/eglut/multi_sphere to see how that can be done.
